this is a little bit this is gonna be a
little bit tricky because we're gonna do
pseudonym us car so there's about a two
to three ratio so like 62% of people
want to do something else
32% want to do seer Namaskar so we're
definitely gonna do Syrian mus car I'll
teach you guys maybe one other thing but
I want you guys to understand this very
clearly so sooner in a mus car is like
the thing that you should do every day
it should be like brushing your teeth
and so we definitely want to do that
every day but I will teach you guys
other stuff so we we learned a backbend
kind of awesome we can learn we've done
a couple things on stream like the Basia
which we can do I'll definitely start
teaching you guys Brown I am and so will
teach you guys more stuff I get that
y'all ready for something else but I
don't I would I don't want you guys to
forget that like some things should be
done every day and be a little bit
careful so when you think about why your
mind wants to learn something besides
Surya Namaskar like what is it are you
guys getting bored of it are you curious
do you want to learn more do you think
more is better so think about all those
things like where does your curiosity
come from and I think ultimately Surya
Namaskar is really the most important
practice but since you guys want to
learn something else and we've been
doing it for a week I'll teach you guys
something else okay so let's let's start
with yoga all right okay hopefully this
will be a little bit better cuz I'm back
at my old set up with more stable
internet okay
all right you guys right so let's start
so start by standing up straight feet
shoulder-width apart close your eyes
just feel the stability of kind of being
here for a second and we're gonna apply
our same rules as before so you guys can
watch me do it if you don't feel
comfortable watch one round and if not
if you all feel kind of ready to go then
you can do it with me so let's start by
putting our feet together anchor
yourself in your instability no must the
position and then we're going to begin
so arms up biceps to your ears feel the
stretch
feel your body waking up feel your back
and then bend down to touch your toes
feel the stiffness let your head hang
and then right leg back and look up good
try to keep your palms flat toes curled
back straight and look up left leg back
look up push-up position stay straight
and then down toes knees chest forehead
and push up hips to the ground
feet flat shoulders out neck curled up
you
and then to downward-facing dog are both
awesome put your heels flat into the
ground and that right leg forward
look up it sort of put your you can move
your hips a little bit to feel stretch
in different areas you should form a
line between your two hands and your
foot and then we're back up to touching
your toes as you exhale let yourself
sink further see how much further you
can go compared to what we started then
back up nice and straight and then back
down so now we're going to turn I'm
going to go ahead and do one round
sideways okay just so you guys can see
what things look like from a sideways
angle now we'll begin round two so now
what we're going to do is incorporate
well let's do round two and then we'll
do round three with some specific
breathing okay so let's begin again up
go a little bit faster this time
feel the stretch down see so as you
loosen it up you're going to kind of be
able to go down a little bit more right
leg back right so this is sort of right
leg back and then you can kind of sink
in a little bit or up just feel that
difference left leg back push up
position so you want to stay nice and
straight further up you go the easier
it's gonna be but we want to stay nice
and straight okay and then down toes
knees chest for them but it's a little
bit of ear
and then feet flattened hips down push
up shoulders rounded out
and then feet toes back on the ground
and then downward-facing dog if that's
what this posture is I don't really know
so try to put your butt in the air heels
down so you don't want to be like this
heels down right leg forward look up
and then feet together hang down tuck
your toes come back up fingers towards
the sky feel that stretch and then back
to baseline then must stay position okay
and now we're gonna do round three all
right
so round three we're going to
incorporate a little bit of breath so
we're going to move a little faster this
time and what I want you guys to do is
essentially with each alternate pose you
want to breathe out and breathe in now
practically what you're probably going
to have to do we're probably gonna take
breaths in between but when we go up
we're going to breathe in when we go
down we're gonna breathe out when we put
one leg back we're gonna breathe in when
we go down let me think about this
so yeah that's not gonna quite work so
we want to I'll tell you guys to breathe
in or breathe out and glue John Nelson
should be excavation okay so for most
poses we're gonna kind of do opposites
of breathing in and breathing out and
then for some cases we're gonna kind of
recenter and relax and start with a full
breath okay so I'll explain so the first
let's adopt our position then start
right breathing in and then out right
back out
other go down and breathe in brush up
and breathe out
buddy then I put it out breathe in and
out and then back to centre
let's do another round okay we're gonna
do two more
it can maybe doing the breath song but
who cares so breathe in out left leg
back in go in out in now and then back
to these
in the third round okay so get ready in
out in out in out in out in out back to
base
now we're going to go back into
shavasana so go ahead and lay down
and feel the vitality kind of coursing
through you is your body wakes up let's
pump it now been breathing well moving
in rid of some of the sluggishness
and now go ahead and come back it's
April 1st probably should have done
something for April Fool's but I didn't
so we're gonna go ahead and sit up
let's go ahead and build on our
meditation practice from yesterday so I
don't want you guys to take your middle
finger and place it over your forehead
start to peel the energizing between
your eyebrows
and come back down now focus on your
forehead spot between your eyebrows
and now let yourself come back back to
the world it's April 1st you may have
tasks to do today
the covin pandemic is very active in the
world and it's time to learn about in
Parma ok so welcome back guys let's get
started
[Music]
ok so do I even need to wear or even
think I need to wear headphones why do I
wear headphones alright so let's see
shall we
I feel like we should get into let's
take a quick break I'm gonna get a
little bit of water ok and let's see you
guys
I love these poles man it's gonna give
me a second to set up reflector and
stuff anyway so ok let's take a quick
break we'll resume so it's 9 26 my time
will resume at 9:30 ok so we'll have
plenty of time don't worry
[Music]
can we do today's lecture with full
Indian accent okay we can try but it's
going to be a good one okay we can do it
about Dharma Dharma we can do it
black screen cap I prefers okay we can
try we let's let's try to do the full
screen we can do the full accent okay
full lecture lecture lecture okay let's
let's take let's do pole pole you know
pole pole Smith his friend of mine Paul
Paul
let's do okay April 1st lecture in
accent or not no ice no Paulie
doctor he likes the pole
oh my goodness it's 50/50 it's 50 P free
ah looks like you guys lose accent folks
50 248 maybe the closest pole in history
team natural ok sorry guys 50 49 ok
that's ok baby will stream today in
accent sad yeah you guys can blame your
your colleagues for wanting to you know
learn things and be professional okay
not my fault all right so let's talk
today we're gonna talk about the pattern
model okay
so bad handwriting POG totter MA
so Dharma is the son script word for
duty or responsibility
and why is harm important so generally
speaking the compass that we use in life
in terms of like what we're trying to do
and what we're trying to not do is to
avoid pain and seek pleasure okay so
this is like this is basically how we we
live our life and this is the way that
our brain is wired okay so this is the
result of brain wiring and if we think
about this for a second you know what
are the foods that we enjoy eating and
what are the foods that we don't enjoy
eating generally speaking our brain
gravitates towards foods that are
pleasurable and away from foods that are
like unpleasurable so we you know tend
to like sweet fatty things and avoid
bitter or astringent things astringent
is actually one of the tastes that we
don't really talk about very much in the
West but there are more than five tastes
so astringent is the taste of like
unripe fruit so if you guys have like an
unripe fruit like you know it's sort of
sour but it also makes your mouth kind
of pucker or dry that taste is called
astringent so this is kind of how we're
wired like if we think about you know if
a child falls down and gets hurt that is
going to be painful and then the child
is going to avoid that and if a child
makes a step forward and is successful
you know we're gonna praise the child
and then the child is really gonna like
that and then they're gonna kind of see
go towards that right so neuro
scientifically we're wired to avoid pain
and see pleasure so what does that what
does that kind of mean for us like I
think the challenge here is that if if
we're wired to avoid pain and seek
pleasure what that means is that
essentially we're
going to avoid bad boring painful stuff
right like this is kind of this sort of
makes sense like we don't want to do
something that's gonna make us feel a
shame we don't want to do something
that's gonna make us feel fearful so
like basically what we tend to avoid is
boredom number one frustration number
two what was the third thing and wordy
number three right so like sure you can
talk about emotions like fear shame
anger but generally speaking when people
are avoiding tasks this is not actually
what their experiences this is what
their experiences right if I ask you
like why don't you go to the library day
and study your answer isn't gonna be
fear shame or anger it's gonna be
boredom like I'm bored this is boring
boring boring boring boring boring
boring boring boring boring why don't
you apply for 50 jobs because it's
frustrating frustrating frustrating
so with this meet that like the tricky
thing though is that if we think about
moving forward in life moving forward in
life tends to so let's just talk about
pleasure for a second actually so let's
talk about pleasure and so what we do is
we seek pleasurable activities right so
this includes video games YouTube like
social media and then like you know
streaming services this can also include
drugs it can include eating unhealthy
[Music]
the last thing here I'm gonna add is
hard right and things that are kind of
pleasurable or things that are easy
right so let's include hark okay
so what this means is like your brain is
kind of wired to pick this category more
than this cat oh sorry the other way
around your brain is wired to pick this
category more than that category and
what this results in is a grand old
feeling of being oh stuck I may have to
switch to the other notes that therefore
you are stuck so your life is sort of
categorized by you know picking this
stuff over this stuff and so this is
this results in you kind of being stuck
in life you can't move forward so then
what happened this is you guys like ask
these questions right we ask all these
questions like how do i how do I switch
this around is there some way that I can
switch things around how do I get
motivation willpower discipline all this
kind of stuff right this is where you
guys think the answer is because what
you do is you observe some people in the
outside world and the people that that
actually manage to do this your
perception is that this is motivation
will or this one or all that good stuff
or smart your perception is that this is
basically pick your positive trait that
you do not have that's what our mind
does right we
look at this curve and we say like oh
that person is and you can you can
insert whatever you want to you can
insert any positive trait that you like
it's kind of interesting right and you
say oh like that person is disciplined
and I'm not and that's why this person
has is successful when I'm not okay now
the question is is so like the problem
with this is like how do you how do you
get this stuff right I mean this stuff
up here on the top right like how do you
get this it's hard so you guys can talk
about like we can talk about motivation
willpower discipline we have and you can
work on those things and those do help
but what I really like about Parma is if
you guys want to turn this thing around
thought of us the easy way to do it
so Dharma is the force that allows you
to pick this stuff over this stuff
without willpower motivation etc Dharma
is the thing that naturally causes you
to not necessarily seek pain but let's
put it accept pain and give up pleasure
this is what the enema allows you to do
okay so let's talk a little bit about
how that happens so I've told this story
several times but like let's let's talk
about something that's a little bit more
timely so let's say that you're you know
so I've seen some of these things on
social media and stuff but let's say you
that you're a doctor and so if you're a
doctor you do a lot of things that
actually like really suck so good
examples are 24-hour calls other
examples are dealing with insurance
companies one of my least favorites
okay Oh etc
so and then like nowadays you know like
doctors are even like separated from
their own families because of COBIT and
stuff like that and so the question is
like how are you able to do this so
there's definitely like you know a lot
of things that allow you to do this so
one is money
one is prestige right there are all
kinds of things that like will gravitate
towards this so you can say this is kind
of long-term stuff but generally in my
experience when you're actually on call
and you know when you're in our 22 of
call when you're like at our 22 and then
like why why is it that you're able to
like function there it's because you
know there's a patient who needs you
[Music]
and if you guys think about this like
you actually do a good job when there's
someone who needs you so if you think
about it this causes you to be your best
self
this is what kind of brings the best
part out of you right like you won't
cook a meal for yourself but I mean I
mean I'm sure a lot of you do but if you
think about like you know cooking a
fresh home-cooked meal for someone who's
sick that's that allows you to like wake
up or go to the grocery store or cook
for them and deliver it to them like if
a friend of yours needs help moving
moving or they need help with this or
that or like you your best self often
comes out due to someone needing you
because that's like your duty or
responsibility and I'll give you guys
just kind of a another sort of classic
example so this is the one that I
usually use so let's say that there's a
gun okay and let's say here is me and
generally speaking you know our response
is to run away from the gun I suppose I
should label this in case people don't
have audio because what does the gun
mean the gun means pain death suffering
kind of lost opportunity and so
basically what I want to do this is
moving okay is run away from the gun
and if we think about it this is a
no-brainer like facing a gun can be
really really hard and our instinctive
reaction is to run away right so then
I'm running away from this so what
happens if my kid is involved right so
suddenly like this actually gets worse
like everything here increases once you
add my kid to this scenario but how do
my actions change right suddenly instead
of running away moving toward the gun so
if you just think about it like this
isn't complicated the stimulus is the
same in fact the stimulus is even worse
but our natural inclination changes
drastically
once our power mode becomes involved and
this is the essence of it like it's not
that complicated
Dharma is that which allows you to
accept pain and give up pleasure and the
problem right now is that you guys don't
accept pain and give up pleasure you
avoid pain and you seek pleasure which
keeps you doing these kinds of
activities and so the secret of Dharma
is that once you find your Dharma like
you're able to do you're able to make
this choice more and more and more right
this choice becomes easier you start to
pick this instead of this and so the
question that becomes so we're gonna see
if okay so hmm I wonder if we should do
questions as we go so let's just pause
there for a second I'm gonna invite
Casper Thomas and Lucas okay let's have
them do hop in to do questions and then
I'm gonna keep talking so we're gonna
try something a little bit different
today okay so try to keep try to keep
your
questions topic focus please
so that's okay you can accept pain and
accept pleasure so let's let's just
think so then the question becomes so
now a lot of people have a question for
me which is like I've talked about
antara a lot on stream so then the next
question becomes how do I fine what's
wrong with this find my the Dharma okay
I see we're getting a lot of questions
hold on do I need to turn off screen
share to talk to people let's see let's
see what happens yeah I pick randomly
[Music]
yeah sure it would be smarter to grab
the kid and run but I mean my point is
that that I'm facing the danger whereas
before I was running away from it and
even if that involves running away from
it but it's like I'm gonna put myself
between the kid in the gun so let's talk
a little bit about and we'll see this is
this working in terms of questions do I
need to turn off screen share let's see
for a second okay
okay I don't know why people aren't able
to get in I'm gonna invite a lot Elias
Thomas and Joe
[Music]
okay I don't know what's the deal there
okay here we go
Eliza's in the room
isn't this is kind of distracting
absolutely so I'm trying something new
we're gonna see if we can sort of flow
questions in and simulate more of a
classroom environment cuz usually when I
teach I'm kind of like I answer
questions as people raise their hands so
I'm gonna try that and see how this
works okay now everyone's flooding in
alright so we'll give people just a
second and then we'll get how do we find
our Dharma we'll try this and then at
the end I'll pull you guys about whether
you want to take questions at the end or
you guys like questions in the middle am
I free to speak or yeah go for it
oh okay so I guess my question is like
the presumption of Dharma is that you're
going to be like more motivated to seek
discomfort because you're doing it for
like the benefit of somebody else but
what if like you aren't
I mean suppose somebody isn't motivated
to help others like do you like is it
possible that there are people like that
in Chapter one including me and what
would your Dharma be in that case so
your Dharma isn't necessarily to help
other people my point is that Dharma is
what allows you to accept pain and give
up pleasure so for example we'll get to
this in a second so I think that the
reason I use the example of helping
others is because it's something that
people can clearly understand like in my
scenario why I would want to avoid a gun
and then why I would want to step in
front of a gun like it in one moment it
flips around what my natural inclination
is and what I do right so but that's
just one example of Dharma there are all
kinds of Karma's so the second thing is
like what if your entire mo what if you
don't like helping people
I don't think helping people is Dharma
so the question is is there anyone in
life that you have a duty or
responsibility to support or help and if
you don't that's okay so I think that
like this is also where I haven't harm
up to my kid because I have a kid if I
didn't have a kid I wouldn't have much
to a kid
so I don't think that it's just helping
people and we'll kind of get to that
like how do you find your Dharma I think
you can absolutely have a tottemo to
yourself or you can have a Dharma to a
call like a calling right so you can so
we'll kind of get to this but I think
that like for a lot of you guys your
Dharma is actually to study and grow and
develop yourself and we'll talk a little
bit more about how to focus that but
you're the hard one doesn't have to be
to help other people like there are
monks who are sitting in the Himalayas
who are like sitting in caves and
meditating all day that's their Dharma
but their Dharma doesn't involve any
other people they don't see people for
like decades and that's completely fine
hmm okay thank you right so you can be
like an author in a cabin in the woods
and in your heart you have a story to
tell and that's what you devote yourself
to and it doesn't involve other people
it's just there's a story that lives
within you that you need to like birth
and bring into the world which is a
completely acceptable thought ah yeah
the author example makes it clear Thanks
yeah so it doesn't have to be to help
people that's just the simplest example
that people can understand great
question thank you thank you all right
we're gonna go with Alexander yeah near
me yeah yeah all right um so I'm just
having some difficulty figuring out what
my Dharma is I guess sure because I I'm
doing all kinds of things in my life
that like I don't know I feel like I
started doing them because my parents
wanted me to like I'm 29 and I work as a
software developer
and I'm building a house and I don't
know just like a lot of things are going
right but like I'm still getting over
depression it's though so I don't I
don't know what my Dharma is in all of
this I guess it's just their short way
to put it and it's still very taxing
sometimes like I'm I'm really rough hard
on myself and yeah I don't know I just
think is like I don't see my Dharma in
this situation that they're still
difficulty and like doing all these
tasks and not feeling like pressured and
yeah yes the first thing is
you know whether you feel difficulty or
not is irrespective of your Dharma right
so the whole point behind Dharma is it's
that which allows you to choose the
difficult path instead of the easier
path now in your case I think that this
sort of makes sense
and I don't know exactly what so we'll
kind of get to how to find your Dharma
that's really why we're sort of doing a
lecture about this but you know I I
think that my question to you would be
like is there some is there any kind of
calling that you have like what is it
that that when you kind of when you
think about your life and you think like
I wish I dot dot dot how do you finish
that sentence mm-hmm and the answer is a
negative that's not sufficient right I
wish I didn't work as a computer
programmer like that's not a sufficient
like the question is I wish I what yeah
I I wish I could travel more or could
help people more like yeah okay I want
one of those like I feel strongly about
both of those I think the traveling is
mostly because it just gets me into a
place where I feel more comfortable so I
don't think that's like the right one I
think the right one is like helping
people more because like in the past
I've needed help okay and okay like I
didn't get it for a very long time until
like two years ago I finally did but
yeah so Alexander I think unfortunately
answering your question is gonna take up
because it's sort of an individual
explanation and I want to focus on broad
principles that apply to other people so
I'd say like hopefully the rest of the
lecture is gonna be helpful to you but
I'd say that further and we'll kind of
get to this like I'm gonna talk about a
couple of things which I want you to
kind of keep an eye out for the first is
that karma and karma are related and
we'll get to that and that you know your
Dharma is not something that it's not
like you wake up one day and you find a
Dharma and then you're set for life like
that's not how it works
it's sort of an evolving process where
right now your thought are Mazda find
your Dharma and oddly enough I wouldn't
say that you should focus on helping
people unless you actually have a way to
help people like that it's gonna come
later so I've always wanted to help
people too
but helping people involved becoming
qualified to help people in a particular
way first right so like one thing that I
can just think of is if you're a
programmer there are a couple hundred
people on our discord that are like
meets and they don't they want to learn
programming so I think our mods actually
put together a programming workshop so
that's an example of like a group of
people in our community stepped up and
realize that they're like hundreds or
thousands of people in our community
that are stuck and that they can
actually help them by teaching the
programming I think that that's a
wonderful example of like living your
Dharma in the moment
oddly enough I'd recommend that if you
should if you want to travel you should
probably travel actually rather than
trying to help people because trying to
help people just sort of randomly it's
not like it's not like I'm gonna go you
know I'm not gonna go looking for people
I mean I guess unless I'm Batman I'm not
gonna go looking for people who are like
pointing guns at other people and try to
step in their path like arbitrary
helping arbitrarily helping people is
just that's not Dharma alright I use
that because I have a specific duty and
the issue is that you probably you want
to help people but who do who do you
have a specific duty to help do you have
anyone not you should be it's kind of I
guess like we'd have to get pretty deep
into it but I've been two years sober so
I go to like a a meeting so like there's
opportunities there yeah so that's so
that's the kind of question you should
be asking yourself right it's like what
what in this moment who can I help and
if the answer is like not really many
people then I would focus on travel okay
yeah alright take care man thank you
yeah a nice trip buddy thanks David
hello Hey okay so you can hear me yep
sorry little nervous so my question
isn't as broad as I don't you might not
like but uh about like a little over a
year ago my grandpa passed away and I
don't know so now it's just me and my
grandma and I feel like I have a Dharma
to kind of like step up and like fill
the shoes that
did around the house sorry I'm just kind
of like but my mom isn't kind of like
she doesn't want that she's kind of like
she's taking on their responsibilities
like I'm the parent like I want you to I
can go on and live your life and do all
that stuff but like I want to figure out
like how I can start that conversation
with her start which conversation with
her like that I'm okay like setting
aside my life for now like to kind of
like help her out because I feel like
that's like what I have to do okay so I
think I mean so your question is not
your question is about how to have a
conversation with your mom about what
you feel your Dharma is well like I feel
like I have a Dharma to her and I'm not
is that like reasonable sure what is
your Dharma to her to to provide as
she's she's smoked for a long time so
she's like had really bad lungs and she
needs like oxygen tanks and so and what
is she what is your mom advocating that
you do she she says that she doesn't
want to like she she actually broke down
once and saying that they she doesn't
want to have to put that was
responsibility onto me okay
and so but what does your mom want you
to do I'm not sure I'm the prep chef
okay so you said earlier that you're she
wants you to kind of like go live your
life and don't stay back because of her
right and your grandmother you kind of
suggest you kind of suggest to that so I
think the first thing is that like you
guys need to have a conversation about
what your wants are right so you should
ask her what do you want my life to be
and what do you should think about what
you want your life to be now let me ask
you something so Dharma allows us to
accept negative emotions or avoid
negative emotions accept them okay so if
you left your family how old are you
David
okay and what are your options for
leaving your family like what would you
do I'd have to I guess find an apartment
I just live by myself okay like would
you go to school or get a job or like
what is what if you lived for yourself
what would that look like I I do have a
job but it's closed down because of
covent sure but what would living for
like is not sacrificing for your family
what would that look like for you I'm
not sure really okay so if you moved out
on your own and started to live your
life how would you feel probably good
like pretty bored because there's not
like my grandma to just like if I'm on
the computer I can't just like get up
and go talk to her what I want and then
like if I live on my own it's just kind
of like I'm just there by myself okay so
I so at first I hadn't understood your
question to be sort of like a conflict
of Dharma like do you live your own life
or do you live a life sort of helping
out your family and I thought that there
was a conflict there but the more that
I'm asking you it doesn't seem like
there's actually a conflict there okay
like what do you think I like I'm just
not so like I don't know how to feel
about it okay so so my thought is that
the first thing that you should do is
and I think you asked a good question
you were like I'm trying to figure out
how to talk to her you've got to talk to
your family about this stuff mm-hmm
right like you guys have to sit down and
you got to say mom I'd like to try to
understand what the next five years of
our lives are gonna look like and then
you guys have to sit down it sounds like
you guys and this is hard because people
you know don't oftentimes don't have
conversations like this and there are
all these feelings of guilt and stuff
like that and and then you can you guys
can run through different scenarios so
you can say like option one is I stay at
home and then how does that make you
feel and what does that look like how
does that make me feel how does that
make grandma feel and then option two is
that I move out of the house how does
that make you feel how does that make me
feel how does that make grandma feel and
what is that
like and just because people so the the
tricky thing here is I I mean I was
shooting for some point which I don't
think your is applicable to you but I I
want you guys to notice that in David's
case what path I mean he says that
moving out makes him feel pretty good
but like I was envisioning that moving
out would make him feel guilty yeah if
we really think about karma Dharma lets
us accept guilt that's exactly what it
does right so right now you not moving
out it has something to do with guilty
like keeping you at home you see that
it's actually avoidance of the guilt
that keeps you stuck at home and so you
would think that the right thing to do
is to stay at home but now this is where
you really have to tunnel down into
yourself and ask yourself am I staying
at home because it's the right thing to
do or am i staying home because if it
staying home protects me from guilt
because the right thing to do may
actually be to move out but like moving
out involves accepting that guilt and
like letting your family fend for
themselves or acknowledging that like
given your your family's earning power
spending a few years going to college
and getting a decent job and making like
60 K or 100k a year is actually gonna be
far better for your family starting at
the age of 25 I don't know what kind of
work you do or how much you make or
things like that but it's a very it's a
very possible scenario that investing in
yourself is the best thing you can do
for your family mm-hmm also
unfortunately I don't really know how
much longer she has left because she's
she's getting up there and she's been
it's like she's smoked her entire life
so sure so you don't know how so so all
that tells me is that it would make you
feel more guilty if you left yeah and
just because you feel guilty doesn't
mean that it's the right or the wrong
thing to do so this is why you need to
have a conversation with your mom and so
I'm gonna leave you with one last
question if you were have you graduated
from college no okay I did go for a
semester but then I I deserted so so
then let me ask you something when your
mom passes away what do you think will
give her more come
effort seeing you living at home working
whatever job you're working are well on
your way to like becoming a successful
human who can provide for your family in
a very comfortable way okay right so
Dharma is tricky and and I'm not saying
you should abandon your mom but you
really have to think about like what is
your Dharma to her and what is her
thought about to you what has heard the
hunter MOT to you it's to provide for
you and set you up in a life that is
like that you can be successful and have
kids of your own and to create a she
wants to create a life for you that is
different she wants you to have a life
that is different from her life right
she wants you to be healthy and stable
so that your kids don't have to worry
about worrying about you hmm
this is a conversation that you need to
have with her and as bizarre as it
sounds I'd be really careful because
this is the tricky thing everyone says
the right thing to do is to stay with
your mom for her last year's where she's
infirm and needs your help and is dying
and then Jill never gonna see her again
makes perfect sense is kind of like
objectively correct and your Dharma may
be different your Dharma may be to start
to build a life for yourself and
recognize that it's your karma in her
karma that she doesn't have much time
left on this earth so you call her every
day or maybe you stay at home or
whatever you guys have to talk this
through and figure out like what the
what the path is because I'm pretty sure
that you know what as a parent I can
tell you that like I could give two
shits about my own happiness like I
don't want my kids to take care of me
like I don't care about that like I want
them to live their lives and be
successful like that's what's gonna make
me happy like does it make me happy to
see them every day absolutely but like
that is pleasure my Dharma
fulfilling my Dharma to my kids is
letting them live their own lives and
that's gonna be so much more satisfying
than just having them around
I'm getting some kind of feedback so for
me
I'm not sure but look alright David so
think about that okay and I think you
have to have a conversation with her
okay and and that conversation is
important now because if she doesn't
have long to live then you've got to
really think about what does she want
how secure or worried is she gonna be
about your future when she passes away
and probably the best thing that you can
do for her is for her to not worry about
you when you're passing went when you're
passed when she passes away and I had to
mute you so we can't hear you but you
can turn it on again because you were we
were getting feedback okay sorry about
so so closing thoughts before we give
you the boot yeah I guess I'll talk I'll
read it we'll try to have more talks I
guess but okay gonna take a while good
luck man thank you bye okay we're gonna
go ahead and do Joe Joe if you're around
and then we're gonna get back to the
lecture because this stuff wait do you
want go for it jack yeah sure I can hear
me yep awesome
cool so yeah I kinda have like two
directions I might want to ask questions
in one is sort of confirming like if I
can have a Dharma to like sort of them I
don't want to call it an abusive
relationship because I think the person
the more I look into it the more I think
they might have like some semblance of
like DPD but it seems like for
historically my relationships I've kind
of been in longer than people would
recommend you know like people are like
why are you still with this participant
I'm just like I don't know I just feel
this obligation and then another another
one is a sorry yeah my connection seems
low at the moment so I'm on the only so
on so the other one is so kind of after
like finding you and was in a rut for a
while and kind of used some Dharma and
meditation and stuff that kind of like
180 which was cool and then I I sort of
realized that well
I don't know it people just started
coming to me for help like I don't I
don't understand it and sure yeah I've
helped people in this discord and my
friends and all kind
I sort of abandoning my like career
dream of being a project manager that
I've wanted for like two years and I
just want to be a life coach and I want
to like start my own business so I took
a leave of absence from work because
it's kind of like too distracting and
I'm just purely focused on that but I'm
still not so I feel like that's my
Dharma is to like just become a life
coach and to help people and kind of do
what you do and the issue though is I'm
I have a lot I need to do to like be an
entrepreneur and like launch a website
and like there's it I don't know it
seems like it's my Dharma but I'm not
really doing the thing you know that I
needed sure so so those are our we're
gonna get to answering your question in
a moment but Jo so first of all huge
congrats on on turning your life around
and being inspired and helping other
people that's awesome so that's like the
whole you know there's a Oh a healing
and then there's also training other
healers my sense is that I would not
abandon a career for the sake of your
Dharma until it's absolutely ready right
so like I think this is where you have
to be really really careful because if
you actually want to be successful at
helping people you may need like
financial stability in order to build
your thing off of the ground yeah so
like I'll give you a good example I
don't think that like I think that the
people who suffer the most and get the
most stuck in life are paid yoga
teachers so people fall in love with
yoga and they're like oh I love yoga I
want to do this all day every day I want
it to be my job and then they like try
to like become a paid yoga teacher and
it's a pay very well and then all kinds
of other things like get in the way of
them being able to just teach yoga
purely it starts to become a business
they have to worry about paying bills
they start worrying about marketing they
become entrepreneurs and some of them
really like it and some of them are very
successful that's probably like 1% and
99% of them are kind of like hustling
and moving from paycheck to paycheck and
it's not a very good life I also think
that in general helping other people
should not be a livelihood so I think
that
your incentives are gonna get really
really misaligned if you depend on
helping people for your income okay I
know that sounds really weird so I'd say
that also if you're if your dream is to
be a product manager like I don't know
what you mean like not it so really it
was the first thing that resonated with
me as far like I've just been doing
customer service for like so long and
then and then this thing sort of opened
up and like I kind of looked at some of
my core like values you had an exercise
that you told people to do at some point
like right down when you last felt
fulfilled and I found a lot of my values
from that and then I looked at the
project management I was like oh this
checks about half the boxes and then I
looked at like just talking to people
and like and just either like a mentor
mentee relationship or like whatever
types of stuff
those were way more hooking into all my
values so yeah this is what I would say
if you if you're on the path to become a
product manager I would actually
recommend that you select what's what
wouldn't what would be okay I so I'm
completely so it's like I'm I have I
have tried to hit that ceiling like so
many times and I just I've given up
like I just can't okay so I mean I think
that's a little bit different I mean my
thought would be that you know if you
want to become a life coach go for it
it's a crowded space and it's hard to
make money and and so you know generally
I also think that like helping people is
something that you can definitely get
compensated for but I think that like
you should be careful about your
incentives so I think part of what makes
healthy gamer good is that I have a job
that supports my family this is my side
gig and I find that having it as your
side gig allows you to not have perverse
incentives around helping people yeah
I think what I want to do is create is
like sort of get the ball rolling so to
speak like deploy like the website get
stuff kind of out there get this sort of
foundational work done and then go back
to work and then kind of make still do
like 40 goes week Joe are you looking
for my blessing are you looking for I'm
trying to understand why I'm so I want
to do the foundational work and then go
back
resume by working my career but what I
don't understand is I'm not like so it
seems like it's my Dharma but I'm not
doing it like I'm like I'm I have time
and I'm not doing it I'm doing I'm
choosing to do other things yes so that
I'm not quite sure so I I don't know I
think this is I don't know if it seems
compellingly overwhelmingly the case
that it's my Dharma but it doesn't seem
to be having the impact arm it does so
then I I don't think it's I think you
need to explore more of what your
autonomy is I think the other way to
think about it is like instead of
instead of getting either pleasurable
thing which is like getting your life
coach website off the ground which would
be satisfying and gratifying to you you
should do the difficult thing which is
devote yourself to being a product
manager and understand that like the
reason that being a product manager
doesn't work for you is because it's not
in service to something else right so
being a product manager is going to
serve your goal of helping other people
and then you start helping people like
in the way that you have been on our
discord signed up to be a recovery coach
or something like that like that's a
great way to you know I wouldn't abandon
I mean I sound like you don't have much
of a product manager career right now
but I would consider like you know Bill
and we'll kind of get to this but like
building up your yourself first before
you start helping other people helping
people comes actually like is in the
second phase of life which we'll talk
about but and I mean it sounds to me
like you're actually so you're it's a
little bit unclear to me what your
question is so it sounds like you
formulated a plan that you feel good
about what you really want to do is you
want to get this stuff off the ground
but I think it's gonna be like I don't I
don't know how successful you're gonna
be because I don't know what separates
you from any of the other coaches on the
internet like how like just because you
have some experience helping people like
I started helping people when I was like
very young to like basically when I came
back from India at the age of 21 and and
like over the first time I came back
from India and then like I still was
helping people here there but it didn't
become a career for me for a decade
later and not really my Dharma for 15
years later so can you do it earlier
absolutely but I would say that like
like we'll get to this so
kind of talked about a couple of these
things okay yeah sure yeah it's it's
mostly that I just don't know if the
Dharma is working or not is really my
question and that's yes then I don't
think you've really found your Dharma
yet if it's not working then then we'll
get to that okay
all right take care cool thanks Elias
unfortunately I'm gonna have to give you
the boot because we're almost a time and
there's still a couple of important
concepts I'm putting that yeah okay
that's fair I figure that's fair take
care of Yap I don't get off no no it's
okay it's it's it's it's my my my choice
okay so let's kind of go back to
screen-sharing oh god did I just bust
the lecture come on okay that took way
longer than possible so let me just
start by actually asking you guys a
couple of questions okay so what I'd
like to do oklets so when I ask a
question in the middle so we'll talk
about that I think that that's actually
a little bit tricky and maybe we want to
do that again but but what I'm really
hoping for which I should have been a
little bit clearer about and I don't
know how I'm going to filter questions
is I'd like to ask you guys questions
that are not quite as personal but are
relevant to sort of the topic that we've
covered so far in the future okay but
that's that's okay okay so let's get to
how do I find my Dharma so we have to
think about whether that's possible so
I'm trying to simulate sort of a lecture
right where like I asked I'm talking
about something in someone raises their
hand and I want to be able to call on
them and so they can ask kind of a
topically relevant question so but we
tried that
so let's we'll go a little bit long
today so how do I find my Dharma
so the first thing is that there are two
two different topics that I want to
cover today one is kind of how you find
your Dharma and the second is the
tomokawa so in in the Sun script system
there are four stages to life okay so so
if you don't know what your entire Maya
is like Sanskrit kind of gives you a
prescription so there are four stages
okay first is student
which is Brahma Jharia householder sorry
[Music]
carajs - from third is transition by
not press
okay so if you guys if you guys didn't
realize bad handwriting + complicated
son script words are a terrible
combination shadows okay so
pronunciation sin yes okay there are
four stages and basically where you are
in life dictates your generals your
entire mo so the first stage is to
student so this is where your Dharma is
Agra brahmacarya is to learn develop and
grow so this is when you kind of like
eat like the first age of life like when
you're 21 you're not supposed to be like
out saving the world right that's
something that I am 37 so I I spent you
know 15 years or longer like basically
you know probably the first 30 years of
my life basically focusing on myself and
I didn't do that intentionally it's just
what happened so I went to India and I
decided to become a monk at the age of
21 and my teacher said no they're like
you have to go finish your education so
to understand that like your Dharma and
helping people that's gonna come later
so your karma is going to determine your
autonomy which we'll talk about in a
second but really if you guys are if you
guys are stuck the first thing to
understand is that like if you want to
help people you can't really help people
right now right like you're not in a
position to help people like David wants
to support his family but
his capacity to support his family is
very limited so what you guys really
need to do is focus first on learning
learning developing and growing and and
you know a couple days ago on stream I
talked a little bit about like how to
prepare for medical school like how to
be a good medical student and I tried to
explain to people that like what I try
to explain to medical students is that
generally speaking they want a z' and so
like they've gotten a's and they're
oriented towards a's their entire life
no i mean this is the first 25 to 30
years of your life should be spent doing
this so until you're about thirty you
should be a Bromwich Anja
it doesn't mean between the ages of so I
guess if you guys want to do it that way
like well we'll say this will say zero
to twenty five to thirty okay that's
maybe a better description so in terms
of a medical student like their job is
not really to help anyone yet but like
they're also focused on grades so the
question is what is their you know what
is their daughter MA and what I try to
explain to them is like you should
forget about grades and understand one
day that you're gonna be you know
someone's going to depend on you to save
their life and so what you should be
doing is preparing for that fictional
patient in the future one day someone is
gonna walk into your door or you're
gonna be at the mall or you're gonna be
at a wedding in the first tier of being
a medical doctor there were two I dealt
with three medical emergencies where I
was the only doctor around like I went
to two weddings and there were like
medical emergencies and then they were
like is there a doctor around I was like
so understand that like as a
medical student
you know people are worried about grades
and they're worried about success and
they're worried about a B and C don't
worry about any of that which you should
really be doing is understanding that
for four years as a medical student
you're going to be taught medical
information and whether you receive that
medical information well or not
determines whether you were going to be
able to save someone's life or whether
someone's going to die and so that's
really the way that you should function
and in terms of you guys you should be
the same way so you should understand
that for most of y'all y'all are
bromwich ideas
so what that means is that your purpose
right now your real Dharma is
preparation you don't know what that
challenge is going to look like you
don't know what you are gonna be called
to do but you should prepare and grow as
much as you can and by as much as I you
can what does that mean how do you focus
it will kind of get to this later too
but I mean I think you that you guys
should absolutely acquire some kind of
professional skill right so let's take I
think it was not David but that last guy
I forgot his name was it David
anyway so so that guy was kind of saying
I'm not actually a product manager yet
and then my response to him would be
like you should actually you know
consider becoming a product manager
because at some point people may need
your help or you may realize okay I
really want to do a life coach and I
need to support myself while I grow my
business or I have a family or whatever
and then he's not going to have any
financial income to support himself and
then he's gonna have to Joe or yeah Joe
and then he's gonna kind of be stuck so
he has to understand that like he has to
support himself in his eventual Dharma
of helping people like that's my path
and I think you know it's worked well
for me because I don't have to I don't
like a case in point as like we're not
charging for the webinar like right so
we may charge for stuff I'm working way
less so I'm working about 25 percent of
what I did when I started twitch
streaming in October and that's still
okay but like I'm working less and less
as we start to make more and more money
so that I can do stuff like this instead
of seeing patients I'm spending more
time on healthy gamer but that like at
any point you know I'm not dependent on
this income and I think that really like
you can support your Dharma if you're
dependent on your internal for your
income which you absolutely can be at
some point it just compromises what
you're capable of so your purpose should
really be to learn and to develop and
grow and what does that mean so that
means like acquiring a professional
skill
[Music]
it also means like becoming personally
stable and what this means is SWA the
eye or self study right so the
brahmacari are traditionally in India
like they included a lot of yoga and
meditation you would actually go to like
a temple in the in the wilderness or an
ashram and that's where you do your
education so you're taught like about
like everyone learns I read that
everyone's learners yoga everyone learns
meditation and that stuff is actually
like more important than learning
mathematics or finance or things like
that so like your guru would teach you
all that stuff they teach you
mathematics they teach you science they
teach you medicine they teach you to
meditate they teach you yoga it's like a
full package whether you're staying at
this place where a monks live and that's
where you're learning that's where
school is so in your case you guys
should absolutely gravitate towards a
professional skill you should endeavor
to become personally stable you should
endeavor to become healthy so that means
physically mentally and spiritually and
the question is why it's because at some
point you guys are gonna face some
challenge right so let's go back to Joe
once again like when he starts his life
coaching business if he isn't like
mentally stable and he starts helping
other people and their stuff kind of
comes on to him then he's gonna really
struggle to like maintain a high level
of performance like if he's not
physically mentally and spiritually
prepared to try to help other people and
he may be able to handle like whatever
kind of you know I'm not saying it's
small but like whatever he's handling
right now is it scales up and it becomes
more important and like let's say that
one day someone comes to him and says
Joe I want to pay you a thousand a
thousand dollars a week to work with me
whenever I want to work with you and
what is Joe gonna say is he gonna treat
that person differently because they
have money is he gonna be compromised by
money like what's gonna happen and so
you really need to become personally
stable professionally stable and healthy
and I want you guys to I was talking to
to someone
this weekend they were kind of telling
me that like you know when was the last
time they felt like their harmony their
Karma and they were walking down the
beach great story and they saw someone
who was like strut like kind of drowning
and they jumped into the water and they
kind of helped them out unclear whether
they would have drowned whether they
saved their life or things like that
unclear but they basically sort of saved
this person's life and the issue is that
that person takes care of themselves
physically like that's an important part
of how they live their day but like if
they hadn't been a good swimmer and they
weren't physically in shape they would
not have been able to do that and I was
kind of asking them like what would have
happened if you didn't jump in and he
was like well they're a bunch of like
overweight people who were watching for
the shoe from the shore and I would have
been just like that so you don't know
what challenges life is gonna throw at
you so you've got to just prepare for
all of them and I want you guys to
really think about that and like think
about what are you preparing for like
kovat is a good example of like you
don't know what the world is gonna send
your way so you guys should be preparing
for all of it
prepare to make income because you don't
know what when you're gonna need money
prepare to become personally stable and
healthy because you don't know what life
is gonna call on you to do so the second
phase is householder so this is when you
make money you have kids and all that
kind of stuff so then you become like
kind of professionally successful you
can start a family things like that and
then you start to transition away so
this is when you become helpful so after
you've made your money after your kids
are kind of taken care of this hermas
sort of these two that are mothers kind
of settled then you kind of transition
away and so I'd say like a beautiful
example of this is Bill Gates so Bill
Gates is a guy who like made his money
like raised his kids and now he's like
focused on helping the world the kind of
Dharma of service when people are asking
oh but I don't feel like helping people
I don't really know if that's the kind
of person I am I say yeah absolutely
you're not in a phase to help people yet
that happens later right so like I help
people because I'm sort of I mean I'm
kind of here and here but actually
helping people comes later in life once
you're established and once your feet
are firmly on the ground then your
capacity to help people
increases astronomically it doesn't mean
that you should turn people away if they
need your help tomorrow but I'm saying
that the kind of granddaughter Maya that
everyone is envisioning where it's like
Parma with a capital D of like helping
the world and making the world a better
place for most people that comes later
in life once they're established so
don't worry about that now which you
guys should really be focusing on is
this in the last phase of life is son
yes which is sort of like really
renunciation so that's when you kind of
give it all up and you devote yourself
towards like meditation and spiritual
enlightenment and God and whatnot so
monks take Sun yes so you kind of you
kind of give up you sort of say like
okay I don't want any of this stuff I'm
just gonna do like meditate all day so
those dudes in the Himalayas who are
meditating in caves they don't really
help a bunch of people they don't really
do a whole lot they don't have kids
they're just taking some yes so you kind
of go you kind of just go and focus on
yourself okay so if you guys are some
kind of saying how do I find my Dharma
the short answer is focus on this for
now just focus on growing and now we get
to the last thing which I'm going to try
to cover in about five minutes so the
term on in karma and a lot of people say
how do I find my karma and the short
answer is you don't your Dharma finds
you
right so in Soviet in in the u.s. we
watch television and in Soviet Russia
television watches you so the short
answer is like for those of you guys who
are worrying about helping people like
we can see for example that your karma
is going to determine your thought of
mine what do I mean by that karma is
kind of like circumstance or the hand
you're dealt in life and basically like
the the Dharma that you have is going to
present itself to you and you just need
to be ready for it right so like if
you're walking down the beach and
someone is drowning like that
it's not something finding your Dharma
in that moment has nothing to do with
what you've sought right so Dharma is
not like Sean like Dharma presents
itself right there definitely exercises
you can do to kind of like start to
think through what your Dharma is but
even now your Dharma is presenting
itself and we can see that from David so
like you know who here is is has the
capacity to help people like David does
like who here as David's Dharma david
has his Dharma because it was given to
him I have my Dharma because it was
given to him given to me do we think
about like what's my entire mats to help
gamers well like how did that happen
right just think about this for a second
you know I spent years of my life kind
of being addicted to video games and
sucking at life and dealing with shame
and all that kind of crap and I thought
that all of that stuff was a waste of
time but that's my Karma those were my
circumstances and I lived through that
and I'm glad that it went that way
because if I had a 4.0 GPA and was like
awesome at life from the get-go I
couldn't actually help you guys so like
even the things that you think when you
when you live your life and you're like
oh I can't find my daughter my I'm
sitting at home I'm not doing anything I
want you guys to understand I was in the
same exact boat in my 20s and I wasn't
doing anything and despite that or even
teens that was part of my karma and that
reinforced what my Dharma was gonna be
and so my god about was to sort of suck
at life and then I had certain
opportunities and I made good choices I
decided to you know spend time and get
into yoga and stuff like that but even
that I was drawn to it it felt like a
calling to me and then I still invested
that time and that energy into learning
that stuff and then I was like okay well
now I'm like married and like I'm in
love with this girl I wasn't married but
I was in love with this girl and I was
like now what am I gonna do I'm not
gonna become a monk that's like re I
might as well become a doctor and so I
was like okay like I'll become a doctor
and this is this is the other
interesting thing so we think of Kurt
like jobs as goals this doesn't actually
inspire you to put your best forward
when a job is a means
to an end then you're gonna put your
best foot forward when your job becomes
part of your Dharma your job isn't your
Dharma but it becomes part of your
tournament so I've decided okay like I'm
gonna become a doctor and like I didn't
want to be a doctor because that was my
daughter my it wasn't like I'm gonna
save lives that was ego I was just like
I'm gonna do this thing because it's
gonna support the other things that I
want to do and and you know so I was
like okay fine so I sit what kind of
arbitrary to be honest like it was like
why I become a doctor it's like kind of
why not and oddly enough that why not
ness allows you to become detached and
once you become detached it's easier to
act because like I was just like okay
I'm gonna become a doctor I'm gonna try
the hardest that I can and if it happens
it happens if it doesn't it doesn't and
B D okay but kind of going back to the
harmonic Karma because I feel like I'm
kind of scattered so what I mean is that
your Dharma is going to present itself
and all you really need to do is prepare
and act when the time is right and your
your Dharma is determined by your Karma
so we can see this very clearly in David
David's Dharma is very clear because his
Karma has given him a certain set of
circumstances my Dharma is very clear
because I have a set of circumstances
give me a second and so your Dharma will
become clear when you are given a set of
circumstances and we can see that this
with jo21 second
and so I want don't want you guys to
worry too much as crazy as it sounds
about finding your Dharma with a capital
D because we can sort of see it emerging
like it we can see it emerging with
David we can see it emerging with Joe so
be it so like if Joe wants to help
people start helping people but don't
abandon your life don't give up on your
career just because you like want to be
a life coach like I don't think that
that's a good idea I mean I think that
when you're ready you can you know
you'll be
and in the meantime like lightly your
karma your karma will tell you what you
need to do okay so if you guys are
looking for your Dharma that's okay like
good you should look and you should seek
but at the same time I wouldn't get too
worried because your karma is going to
present your Dharma to you when it's
your time and in the meantime your real
focus is actually to prepare this is
your tournament right now more than
anything else okay and then karma will
let you know when it's when it's time
like it'll come knocking and we can see
it with people right we see it with
myself we see it with David we see it
with Joe that he shouldn't I mean if he
wants to build a practices life coach
how early cannot can it happen it can
happen very early it can happen like
when you're five Dharma can present
itself at any time if you guys don't
know what you're supposed to do don't
worry about it oddly enough and prepare
yourself for what may come and there are
also exercises and stuff that we can do
so I'm gonna leave you guys with one
last exercise which is how to find the
job of your dreams okay and I know this
is sounds kind of weird but this is this
is kind of what I want you guys to do
okay so I know where I'm just talking
about you know don't focus on finding a
job at cetera but if you guys are
looking for structure for preparation
this is what I want you guys to do okay
so let's do this first location so I'm
gonna try to tie things together okay so
let's say that I want to be I want to
work at Riot Games how should you
structure your preparation if you want
to work at Riot Games like you know I I
don't know how to do that so this is
what I want you guys to do like I want
you guys to think about what you would
like doing or what you would like to try
and then you're gonna so we're
just gonna go to this website and this
is gonna tie together a lot of different
stuff okay so like you were just gonna
look like as I like League of Legends
and I think it's cool and so we're just
gonna look at this right so like okay do
I want to be a lead artist not really I
don't want to do animation brand new
management that's kind of cool like
creative and IP development that sounds
neat
so let's just pick this then what we do
is we look at our responsibilities
okay so manage product lifestyle from
game concept to launch and post launch
promote the game its vision and core
mechanics across right across riot
ensure the game's marketing fit game
ensure the game and marketing fit the
brand strategy through partnering with
Riots global publishing team manage
in-game content planning blah blah blah
and then we get to required
qualifications and then we get to
desired qualifications and this sounds
like a lot right so like if you think
about this this is like oh wow like five
years of marketing experience with at
least three years in the video game
industry oh my goodness this sounds
terrible okay so now what we're gonna do
so now what I want you guys to do is
like like take this and make these check
boxes so like start a grab a piece of
paper turn this into its checkbox turn
this into a check box turn this into a
check box turn this into a check box
turn all of these into check boxes and
you may look at this and you may say
like oh actually I can't do this like
there's no way like I have to get a
master's degree and then five years of
experience this is gonna happen a decade
later there's no way I'm gonna be able
to do this that's okay don't worry about
that then what I want you guys to do is
start the first thing like look at these
check boxes and work like let check the
first like try to figure out how to get
started right so then what I want you
guys to do is let's look through this
and let's let's figure out can we do
anything on this list
okay produce high-quality game assets
for marketing campaigns I don't know how
to do that
present products to all audiences I
don't know how to do that manage
communications
across a worldwide organization I don't
know how to do that requires some travel
oh hey look at this guy's plays games
weekly on console mobile and PC check
number one just think about that okay
great
so then let's look at some of this other
stuff proficiency with net based
sprinkler brand watch or other
equivalent tools so then what we're
gonna do is we're gonna say okay I don't
even know what that is net base tutorial
[Music]
at base comm okay so then we're gonna
read this we're gonna read this we're
gonna read this and then can we see
let's see
net base certification okay is this
still let me just make sure this is
still streaming okay good so we're gonna
read this full product details can be
found here ah fail let's go back to net
base customers okay so we're gonna we're
gonna see what we can learn here right
so there may be tutorials so net base
and then what else do we need
sprinkler hey on-demand learning public
training set oh look public training
sessions great right so what we're gonna
do is we're gonna do offers virtual
webinars okay certification programs
okay so we're not gonna login here but
we're gonna look at that and then what I
want you guys to do is you're like okay
I want to learn I want to be a brand
manager at Riot Games because I think
social media is cool and I like I like
global worldwide organization global
strategies that sounds kind of neat so
you guys already checked number one and
then what you're gonna do is like during
Cova dover the next month you're gonna
learn these two right and then once you
check these two then you're gonna have
some qualifications you're gonna see
what else can i do okay do i have a
bachelor's degree in marketing
communications or business related field
okay and then what's gonna happen after
you do this is you're gonna be like oh
that's kind of cool I actually like that
and then you're gonna decide like okay
do I want to actually do
kind of stuff or not understanding
social media platforms right so we're
gonna watch Devin Nash's stream a little
bit and then we're gonna kind of go from
there we're gonna start learning this
stuff and then the interesting thing is
like let's say you've finished half of
your college or you dropped out after
one semester then you decide okay I'm
gonna go to college I'm gonna go back to
college because like I actually do want
to do this stuff I think it's really
cool and the neat thing is that right
now when you guys go to college like you
don't actually care about anything that
you learn right you're like ah it's
college but now you're like okay I need
a bachelor's degree and while you're in
college it becomes way more fun because
college is no longer an end it's not a
goal you're like oh I need college to
get a good job it's actually College as
one of the pieces that's required to get
the job of your dreams and you're gonna
major in marketing because but but
that's weird because marketing is for
losers and I want to major in law or
accounting or medicine or computer
science or statistics or mathematics and
then while you're going through college
every step of the way you're gonna be
going to your professors and you're
gonna ask be asking them hey do you know
anyone who uses brand watch or other
equivalent tools do you know where I can
get experience understanding brand
campaign indicators metrics are
analytics you're going to go to your
professors and you're gonna ask them
these questions and then your professors
are gonna look at you and they're gonna
be like wow this kid is like super super
motivated and they're gonna say yeah
actually I have a buddy who works in a
company I'm gonna set you up with an
internship and then you're gonna get an
internship or you're gonna start
applying for internships and then what's
gonna happen is you're gonna put
together a resume at some point and
since you guys used a month very
productively during COBIT cove in
learning net base and sprinkler
you're gonna on your resume you're gonna
say I am Joe David and I'm 21 years old
and my qualifications are I've completed
two years of college and I have a 2.8
GPA you don't have to advertise that if
you don't want to and then you can say
next in the next line but beneath that
is certified in net base sprinkler and
brand watch and you're gonna say like
you know completed a marketing project
used brand campaign indicators metric
metrics and analytics to develop a media
creative media strategy that's what
you're gonna say on your resume and then
suddenly six months from now you guys
are in college again and you've got that
on your resume and do you guys see how
like that's a real thing like you're a
real person now and when you apply to
for an internship in a company they're
like oh god this guy actually knows
something in between from now to even
three months or six months from now
where you had nothing now you've got a
resume and it's a real resume and like
you don't like you're there and then you
have an internship so then what happens
it like you get an internship and then
what happens is like you you like you
apply for the next internship so you go
to Riot Games and then you say I'm a I'm
an undergrad I've done an internship
with this company you have a letter of
recommendation from your professor this
is one semester this is like right now
it's April right so we're gonna go
through the summer and then we're gonna
enroll in college in the fall we're
gonna apply now because now we actually
care about applying and then come
November of 2020 you're gonna apply to
Riot Games and you're gonna say I'm
looking for an internship I'm highly
motivated I'm I'm familiar with brand
watch sprinkler this and this I did my
project on this and then I did an
internship at this company where I
focused on using industry trends
partnerships and branded learning the
branded content landscape and I am
interested in an internship where I can
let's think about this how would I say
this I'm interested in gaining knowledge
of the development the game development
process and life cycle so that I can
build a uniform brand strategy that that
combines brain game development with
like market analytics to create like a
good product that lands well with its
audience and is also globally branded so
like impact multiple markets or some
like that you say this is what I'm
looking for and
then suddenly like you're like a real
person and like if you're a you know I
don't know really know people at Riot
Games I mean who actually do we're done
but you know we've met some of them but
when I think about you know when I'm
reviewing applications like what do I
look for it's stuff like this and so if
you guys think about this like you can
do this right like this is something
that you can manage on your own and and
it's not hard and like now we sort of
get to like sort of the the summary of
everything so we talked about motivation
we talked about procrastination we
talked about avoidance of emotions we
talked about chunking up tasks we talked
about and thought about in preparation
in Bromwich Aria this is everything tied
together do you guys see that so the
first thing is you're not motivated
because you don't understand what your
goals are your goals are way too
abstract you're procrastinating because
you haven't chunked up tasks properly
and you feel like shame and you feel
bored and you don't know what your
entire mised so you're not doing
everything this process combines all of
that stuff
we're chunking up tasks we're stepping
away from shame because you're learning
something before you even like you go to
college so you're gonna you're gonna be
like the one student in your marketing
class which is filled with a bunch of
freshmen and instead of feeling shame
because you're 21 and sitting in a class
with a bunch of eighteen year olds those
eighteen year olds have no idea what
they're doing with life and you're
showing up with your professor and
you're saying I'm certified and brand
watch and sprinkler
I'd like to better understand Kim brand
campaign indicators metrics and
analytics can you please help me and
then all the 18 year olds are gonna look
at you really like who the is this
guy
and then like that's it
like all of the procrastination like
becomes way easier the motivation starts
happening naturally you're starting to
prepare yourself for your Dharma and
then one or two years down the road you
may realize oh actually I don't like
this but then that's actually perfectly
fine because then you just make a career
pivot let's say that what you actually
want to do is not brand management but
you want to do like game development and
then you're like okay I actually want to
build video games so then what you
actually do is you're like oh man like
this sucks because all these people who
have built video games are gonna be more
experienced than me but I want you guys
to think about this for a second when
you apply for your next job to be a game
developer you do that some of this
process as well so you
learn how to like program or whatever
and then on your application it says
that I want to design video games and I
have a background in in marketing
analytics brand campaign indicators and
I believe I offer a unique advantage
over your other programmers because
while I am developing a video game I
have a knowledge of the brand side of
things and what kind of video game
development will be well-suited to be
like marketed globally across you know
market and grow globally in my
appreciation for metrics and analytics
allows me to like do an iterative
process of game development that allows
the game to be more accessible and like
better played it's not just mechanics I
understand the branding stuff too and
then you think about this like so
they're gonna get like applications for
programmers right and they're gonna look
at your application and they're gonna be
like oh this guy is disadvantaged
because he understands brand Analects
know it's dumb right I don't know what
my dream job is fine so pick something
what do you want to do like what do you
want to do start there that's fine you
don't need a dream job like you're not
gonna actually like I'm not you think
that the first thing that you're gonna
pick is gonna be like what you invest
eight years doing forget about that pick
something that you think is cool and
just start there and this is exactly why
I'm talking to you guys about the pivot
the pivot is because you don't have to
pick your dream job you just have to
pick a job and if you kind of like it
you can pivot into other fields okay so
listen last thing we're gonna end with
so let's stop screen share and give me a
second okay
last thing I mean I kind of know the
answer to this but let's just ask okay
so questions at the end or in the middle
that's stupid I know the answer but
we'll ask anyway because shouldn't make
assumptions
I want to just get this data right now
but that's that's kind of how we tie
things together okay at the end easy
okay
so great job today guys we're gonna
hopefully this makes sense
we did meditation earlier but yeah so
we'll see you guys tomorrow and I'll try
to outline some of this stuff like a
little bit more like by the way this
whole find a job of your dreams thing is
actually like a YouTube good thing that
I've sort of developed but so hopefully
you guys can kind of see like I want you
guys to just think about that and think
about your notes for motivation and
procrastination and see how motivation
and procrastination would be affected by
this plan okay and we're gonna stream
today in about an hour in ten minutes so
I got to run thanks guys